README.md, before:

# SAP Repository Template

Default templates for SAP open source repositories, including LICENSE, .reuse/dep5, Code of Conduct, etc... All repositories on github.com/SAP will be created based on this template.

## To-Do

In case you are the maintainer of a new SAP open source project, these are the steps to do with the template files:

- Check if the default license (Apache 2.0) also applies to your project. A license change should only be required in exceptional cases. If this is the case, please change the [license file](LICENSE).
- Enter the correct metadata for the REUSE tool. See our [wiki page](https://wiki.one.int.sap/wiki/display/ospodocs/Using+the+Reuse+Tool+of+FSFE+for+Copyright+and+License+Information) for details how to do it. You can find an initial .reuse/dep5 file to build on. Please replace the parts inside the single angle quotation marks < > by the specific information for your repository and be sure to run the REUSE tool to validate that the metadata is correct.
- Adjust the contribution guidelines (e.g. add coding style guidelines, pull request checklists, different license if needed etc.)
- Add information about your project to this README (name, description, requirements etc). Especially take care for the <your-project> placeholders - those ones need to be replaced with your project name. See the sections below the horizontal line and [our guidelines on our wiki page](https://wiki.one.int.sap/wiki/pages/viewpage.action?pageId=3564976048#GuidelinesforGitHubHealthfiles(Readme,Contributing,CodeofConduct)-Readme.md) what is required and recommended.
- Remove all content in this README above and including the horizontal line ;)

***

# Our new open source project

## About this project

*Insert a short description of your project here...*

## Requirements and Setup

*Insert a short description what is required to get your project running...*

## Support, Feedback, Contributing

This project is open to feature requests/suggestions, bug reports etc. via [GitHub issues](https://github.com/SAP/<your-project>/issues). Contribution and feedback are encouraged and always welcome. For more information about how to contribute, the project structure, as well as additional contribution information, see our [Contribution Guidelines](CONTRIBUTING.md).

## Security / Disclosure
If you find any bug that may be a security problem, please follow our instructions at [in our security policy](https://github.com/SAP/<your-project>/security/policy) on how to report it. Please do not create GitHub issues for security-related doubts or problems.

## Code of Conduct

We as members, contributors, and leaders pledge to make participation in our community a harassment-free experience for everyone. By participating in this project, you agree to abide by its [Code of Conduct](https://github.com/SAP/.github/blob/main/CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md) at all times.

## Licensing

Copyright (20xx-)20xx SAP SE or an SAP affiliate company and <your-project> contributors. Please see our [LICENSE](LICENSE) for copyright and license information. Detailed information including third-party components and their licensing/copyright information is available [via the REUSE tool](https://api.reuse.software/info/github.com/SAP/<your-project>).

Commit message:

repository setup with license modification, dep5 enhanced and basic project description

README.md, after:

# Juno

[![REUSE status](https://api.reuse.software/badge/github.com/cloudoperators/juno)](https://api.reuse.software/info/github.com/cloudoperators/juno)

## Overview

Juno is a repository that serves as a collection of Micro Frontends (MFE) and libraries designed for modular development within a larger system.

## Micro Frontends (MFE)

Juno consists of multiple Micro Frontends (MFE) that encapsulate specific functionality and user interface components. Each MFE operates independently and can be integrated into a larger application seamlessly.

## Libraries

In addition to Micro Frontends, Juno also includes a set of libraries that provide shared functionality and utilities across different parts of the system. These libraries are designed for reusability and modularity, facilitating consistent development practices and code sharing.

### Included Design System

One of the libraries in Juno incorporates a comprehensive design system, providing consistent UI components, styles, and guidelines for building user interfaces within the system. This design system promotes consistency and efficiency in frontend development across multiple Micro Frontends (MFE) and applications.

## Support, Feedback, Contributing

This project is open to feature requests/suggestions, bug reports etc. via [GitHub issues](https://github.com/cloudoperators/juno/issues). Contribution and feedback are encouraged and always welcome. For more information about how to contribute, the project structure, as well as additional contribution information, see our [Contribution Guidelines](CONTRIBUTING.md).

## Code of Conduct

We as members, contributors, and leaders pledge to make participation in our community a harassment-free experience for everyone. By participating in this project, you agree to abide by its [Code of Conduct](https://github.com/SAP/.github/blob/main/CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md) at all times.

## Licensing

Copyright 2024 SAP SE or an SAP affiliate company and Juno contributors. Please see our [LICENSE](LICENSE) for copyright and license information. Detailed information including third-party components and their licensing/copyright information is available [via the REUSE tool](https://api.reuse.software/info/github.com/cloudoperators/juno).
