packages/communicator/README.md, before:

# Communicator

[![License](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-Apache%202.0-blue.svg)](LICENSE)

The **Communicator** library facilitates seamless message exchange across various contexts, including multiple tabs on the same origin, by utilizing events. It offers a versatile range of communication options, including broadcast events for widespread interaction and one-to-one messaging capabilities.

## Overview

The library employs a set of methods, each complementing its counterpart:

- **broadcast <-> watch**: These methods enable efficient communication between sender and receiver. When a sender employs the `broadcast` method to transmit an event, it must be monitored by a recipient using the `watch` method. This mechanism ensures that information is disseminated to the intended audience.

- **get <-> onGet**: These methods are tailor-made for one-to-one communication, allowing precise exchanges between sender and recipient. Similar to broadcast and watch, if a sender utilizes the `get` method, the corresponding recipient should listen and respond using the `onGet` method. This approach ensures that data flows seamlessly in a directed manner.

Additionally, the Communicator library introduces the `crossWindow` option, which enhances its capabilities by enabling cross-tab communication. This feature facilitates communication between tabs, providing additional flexibility and expanding the library's utility.

## Install

`pnpm add @cloudoperators/communicator"`

## Usage

To use the library, you can import the necessary functions:

```javascript
import { broadcast, watch, get, onGet } from "@cloudoperators/communicator"
```

### broadcast(name, data, options) ⇒ void

Use this function to send messages via BroadcastChannel across different contexts, such as multiple tabs on the same origin.

```javascript
broadcast("AUTH_TOKEN_UPDATED", { token: "TOKEN" }, { debug: true, crossWindow: false })
```

### watch(name, callback, options) ⇒ function

Register a listener for a specific message. Messages are observed across contexts.

```javascript
const unwatch = watch(
  "AUTH_TOKEN_UPDATED",
  (data, { sourceWindowId, thisWindowId }) => {
    console.log(data)
  },
  { debug: false }
)
```

### get(name, callback, options) ⇒ function

Request a message by name and receive the data with the callback.

```javascript
const cancel = get(
  "AUTH_TOKEN_UPDATED",
  (data, { sourceWindowId, thisWindowId }) => {
    console.log(data)
  },
  { debug: false }
)
```

### onGet(name, callback, options) ⇒ function

Use this function to respond to get messages.

```javascript
const unwatch = onGet(
  "AUTH_TOKEN_UPDATED",
  (getOptions, { sourceWindowId, thisWindowId }) => {
    return { name: "test" }
  },
  { debug: false }
)
```

Commit message:

chore(ci): standardize Node.js Version and Update Workflows (#989)
* chore(ci): test latest node version

* chore(ci): preview example app

* chore(ci): upgrade all workflows

* chore(ci): add test changes to all apps and packages

* chore(docs): use of nvm

* chore(ci): set node version

* chore(ci): add new line

* chore(docs): added links to license an contributions

* chore(docs): typo

* chore(ci): typo

* chore(ci): ignore license check for .nvmrc

* chore(ci): make use of env variable for node version

packages/communicator/README.md, after:

# Communicator

[![License](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-Apache%202.0-blue.svg)](LICENSE)

The **Communicator** library facilitates seamless message exchange across various contexts, including multiple tabs on the same origin, by utilizing events. It offers a versatile range of communication options, including broadcast events for widespread interaction and one-to-one messaging capabilities.

## Overview

The library employs a set of methods, each complementing its counterpart:

- **broadcast <-> watch**: These methods enable efficient communication between sender and receiver. When a sender employs the `broadcast` method to transmit an event, it must be monitored by a recipient using the `watch` method. This mechanism ensures that information is disseminated to the intended audience.

- **get <-> onGet**: These methods are tailor-made for one-to-one communication, allowing precise exchanges between sender and recipient. Similar to broadcast and watch, if a sender utilizes the `get` method, the corresponding recipient should listen and respond using the `onGet` method. This approach ensures that data flows seamlessly in a directed manner.

Additionally, the Communicator library introduces the `crossWindow` option, which enhances its capabilities by enabling cross-tab communication. This feature facilitates communication between tabs, providing additional flexibility and expanding the library's utility.

## Install

Ensure you have the latest version of Node.js installed on your machine. Then, you can install the Communicator library using the following command:

```bash
pnpm add @cloudoperators/communicator
```

## Usage

To use the library, you can import the necessary functions:

```javascript
import { broadcast, watch, get, onGet } from "@cloudoperators/communicator"
```

### broadcast(name, data, options) ⇒ void

Use this function to send messages via BroadcastChannel across different contexts, such as multiple tabs on the same origin.

```javascript
broadcast("AUTH_TOKEN_UPDATED", { token: "TOKEN" }, { debug: true, crossWindow: false })
```

### watch(name, callback, options) ⇒ function

Register a listener for a specific message. Messages are observed across contexts.

```javascript
const unwatch = watch(
  "AUTH_TOKEN_UPDATED",
  (data, { sourceWindowId, thisWindowId }) => {
    console.log(data)
  },
  { debug: false }
)
```

### get(name, callback, options) ⇒ function

Request a message by name and receive the data with the callback.

```javascript
const cancel = get(
  "AUTH_TOKEN_UPDATED",
  (data, { sourceWindowId, thisWindowId }) => {
    console.log(data)
  },
  { debug: false }
)
```

### onGet(name, callback, options) ⇒ function

Use this function to respond to get messages.

```javascript
const unwatch = onGet(
  "AUTH_TOKEN_UPDATED",
  (getOptions, { sourceWindowId, thisWindowId }) => {
    return { name: "test" }
  },
  { debug: false }
)
```

## Contributing

We welcome contributions from the community. Please follow our [contribution guidelines](https://github.com/cloudoperators/juno/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md) to contribute to this project.

## License

Licensed under the [Apache License](LICENSE).
