apps/example/README.md, before:

# Example App

[![License](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-Apache%202.0-blue.svg)](LICENSE)
[![Built with Juno](https://cloudoperators.github.io/juno/built-with-juno.svg)](https://github.com/cloudoperators/juno)

The Example App serves as a demo to showcase interactions between multiple components, adhering to our best practices. Additionally, it illustrates how Juno components can be utilized in a real-world scenario.

# Usage

## Standalone Mode

To create a static, runnable build, execute the following commands:

```bash
cd apps/example
npx turbo build:static
```

This will generate an `index.html` file along with the necessary assets in the dist folder. You’ll need to copy a `appProps.json` file containing the required props into the dist folder.

## As a Micro Frontend (MFE)

To build a library version for dynamic import, use the following commands:

```bash
cd apps/example
npx turbo build
```

This will create a dist folder with all assets. You can host this folder and load it as an MFE using dynamic import:

```html
<div id="root"></div>

<script type="module">
  import("PATH_TO_HOST/example/dist/index.js").then((app) => {
    app.mount(document.getElementById("root"), { props: /* PROPS JSON */ })
  })
</script>
```

## Development Mode

<!-- add note -->

> [!NOTE]  
> Please make sure to copy the **appProps.template.js** file to **appProps.json** before proceeding.

```bash
cd apps/example
npx turbo dev
```

### Testing

```bash
cd apps/example
npx turbo test
```

## App Props

These are the customizable application properties (appProps) that you can define in your appProps.json file:

- **theme**: `"theme-light"` or `"theme-dark"` (default).
- **endpoint**: The API endpoint URL for the app. Empty by default.
- **embedded**: `true`or `false` (default). Set to true if the app is to be embedded in another existing app or page. If set to true, the app will not render a page header/footer and will only render the content.

Commit message:

chore(example): example app rework, a reference for future JunoUI app design/development [2nd iteration] (#988)
* add theme colours and put creation in modal

* fix toolbar

* implement panel on peak click

* right align custom modal buttons and fix nav to peak detail page from panel

* add default values for peak to edit panel instead of hardcoded placeholders

* fix edit cancelation modal button alignment and triggering, along with save button enablement on input change

* fix edit cancelation modal button alignment and triggering, along with save button enablement on input change

* fix form validation and styling

* clean up ui

* fix metrics button and data grid alignments

* fix validation errors

* clean auth

* clean auth

* combine states

* clean up states

* use className for tailwind instead of hardcoded style

* rename auth state and add siulation warning

* fix state types

* tidy logic

* tidy state logic

* tidy components

* fix errors

* fix errors

* refactor

* refactor

* add lisences

* small changes to tidy code, reuse logic

* fix pills

* fix small design issues

* fix toolbar responsiveness

* tiny design change

* change statistics section styling and make search on input

* design updates

* fix metrics boxes for peaks and countries detail pages

* fix data grid alignment, using stack and not data grid

* small design fixes

* fix styling error, fix view button css

* tidy code with suggestions

* fix unused vars

* feedbakc improvements

* fix eslint error in filtering

* fix import issues

* refactor country page

* standardise gaps

* standardise gaps, chnage section buttons to small

* use Stack

* remove comments, small fixes, url validation bug fixed

apps/example/README.md, after:

# Example App

[![License](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-Apache%202.0-blue.svg)](LICENSE)
[![Built with Juno](https://cloudoperators.github.io/juno/built-with-juno.svg)](https://github.com/cloudoperators/juno)

The Example App serves as a demo to showcase interactions between multiple components, adhering to our best practices. Additionally, it illustrates how Juno components can be utilized in a real-world scenario.

# Usage

## Standalone Mode

To create a static, runnable build, execute the following commands:

```bash
cd apps/example
npx turbo build:static
```

This will generate an `index.html` file along with the necessary assets in the dist folder. You’ll need to copy a `appProps.json` file containing the required props into the dist folder.

## As a Micro Frontend (MFE)

To build a library version for dynamic import, use the following commands:

```bash
cd apps/example
npx turbo build
```

This will create a dist folder with all assets. You can host this folder and load it as an MFE using dynamic import:

```html
<div id="root"></div>

<script type="module">
  import("PATH_TO_HOST/example/dist/index.js").then((app) => {
    app.mount(document.getElementById("root"), { props: /* PROPS JSON */ })
  })
</script>
```

## Development Mode

<!-- add note -->

> [!NOTE]  
> Please make sure to copy the **appProps.template.js** file to **appProps.json** before proceeding.

```bash
cd apps/example
npx turbo dev
```

### Testing

```bash
cd apps/example
npx turbo test
```

## App Props

These are the customisable application properties that you can define in your `appProps.json` file:

- **endpoint**:

  - Specifies the URL for API requests.
  - **Default**: Base URL of the current page
  - **Example**:
    ```json
    {
      "endpoint": "https://api.example.com"
    }
    ```

- **id**:
  - Unique identifier for user or session tracking.
  - **Default**: Undefined
  - **Example**:
    ```json
    {
      "id": "user1"
    }
    ```
