apps/doop/README.md, before:

# Doop

[![License](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-Apache%202.0-blue.svg)](LICENSE)
[![Built with Juno](https://cloudoperators.github.io/juno/built-with-juno.svg)](https://github.com/cloudoperators/juno)

This UI offers a dashboard to aggregate all policy violations reported by the Gatekeeper instances in each cluster.

# Usage

## Standalone Mode

To create a static, runnable build, execute the following commands:

```bash
cd apps/doop
npx turbo build:static
```

This will generate an `index.html` file along with the necessary assets in the dist folder. You’ll need to copy a `appProps.json` file containing the required props into the dist folder.

## As a Micro Frontend (MFE)

To build a library version for dynamic import, use the following commands:

```bash
cd apps/doop
npx turbo build
```

This will create a build folder with all assets. You can host this folder and load it as an MFE using dynamic import:

```html
<div id="root"></div>

<script type="module">
  import("PATH_TO_HOST/doop/build/index.js").then((app) => {
    app.mount(document.getElementById("root"), { props: /* PROPS JSON */ })
  })
</script>
```

## Development Mode

First, create an `appProps.json` file in the root directory of the application (apps/doop), using appProps.template.json as a reference. Customize the file with the necessary properties. Once completed, run the following commands:

```bash
cd apps/doop
npx turbo dev
```

### Testing

```bash
cd apps/doop
npx turbo test
```

## App Props

These are the customizable application properties (appProps) that you can define in your appProps.json file:

- **id** (optional): Use unique IDs if you need to instantiate multiple instances of the app on the same page.
- **theme** (optional): Overrides the default theme. Acceptable values are `"theme-light"` or `"theme-dark"` (default).
- **displayName** (optional): The name to be displayed in the app's header.
- **apiEndpoint** (required): The URL of the API endpoint the app will interact with.
- **embedded** (optional): Set to `true` if the app will be embedded within another app or page. When `true`, the app will not display the header or footer, rendering only the content. Default is `false`.
- **isMock** (optional): Use mocked data for development purposes. Default is `false`.
- **showDebugSeverities** (optional): Display debug severity levels in the log. Default is `false`.
- **initialFilters** (optional): The initialFilters set default filters using an object that contains a key (the filter field) and a value (an array of filter criteria). For example, `{ "support_group": ["containers"] }`.

Commit message:

chore(doop): added screenshots with fake data to readme

apps/doop/README.md, after:

# Doop

[![License](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-Apache%202.0-blue.svg)](LICENSE)
[![Built with Juno](https://cloudoperators.github.io/juno/built-with-juno.svg)](https://github.com/cloudoperators/juno)

This user interface provides a comprehensive dashboard that aggregates all policy violations reported by Gatekeeper instances in each cluster. Users can easily filter and search through the violations, allowing for quick access to specific incidents. Additionally, detailed views are available for each violation, enabling users to gain deeper insights into the issues at hand.

## Screenshots

![Overview](../../assets/images/doop_overview.png)
![Details](../../assets/images/doop_detail.png)

# Usage

## Standalone Mode

To create a static, runnable build, execute the following commands:

```bash
cd apps/doop
npx turbo build:static
```

This will generate an `index.html` file along with the necessary assets in the dist folder. You’ll need to copy a `appProps.json` file containing the required props into the dist folder.

## As a Micro Frontend (MFE)

To build a library version for dynamic import, use the following commands:

```bash
cd apps/doop
npx turbo build
```

This will create a build folder with all assets. You can host this folder and load it as an MFE using dynamic import:

```html
<div id="root"></div>

<script type="module">
  import("PATH_TO_HOST/doop/build/index.js").then((app) => {
    app.mount(document.getElementById("root"), { props: /* PROPS JSON */ })
  })
</script>
```

## Development Mode

First, create an `appProps.json` file in the root directory of the application (apps/doop), using appProps.template.json as a reference. Customize the file with the necessary properties. Once completed, run the following commands:

```bash
cd apps/doop
npx turbo dev
```

### Testing

```bash
cd apps/doop
npx turbo test
```

## App Props

These are the customizable application properties (appProps) that you can define in your appProps.json file:

- **id** (optional): Use unique IDs if you need to instantiate multiple instances of the app on the same page.
- **theme** (optional): Overrides the default theme. Acceptable values are `"theme-light"` or `"theme-dark"` (default).
- **displayName** (optional): The name to be displayed in the app's header.
- **apiEndpoint** (required): The URL of the API endpoint the app will interact with.
- **embedded** (optional): Set to `true` if the app will be embedded within another app or page. When `true`, the app will not display the header or footer, rendering only the content. Default is `false`.
- **isMock** (optional): Use mocked data for development purposes. Default is `false`.
- **showDebugSeverities** (optional): Display debug severity levels in the log. Default is `false`.
- **initialFilters** (optional): The initialFilters set default filters using an object that contains a key (the filter field) and a value (an array of filter criteria). For example, `{ "support_group": ["containers"] }`.
