packages/ui-components/README.md, before:

# Juno UI Components Library

[![License](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-Apache%202.0-blue.svg)](LICENSE)

## Installation

To add Juno UI components to your app as a development dependency, install them using pnpm:

```bash
pnpm add @cloudoperators/juno-ui-components
```

…or declare manually as a dev-dependency:

```js
// package.json
"dependencies": {
  ...
  "@cloudoperators/juno-ui-components": "*"
  ...
}
```

```bash
pnpm install
```

## Working With Tailwind

Juno comes with [Tailwind](https://tailwindcss.com/) included, so when using Juno you automatically can use tailwind in your project.

To be able to make full use of the predefined colors and other custom properties from the Juno UI components library you will need to include the ui components tailwind config into your application's tailwind config like this:

```js
module.exports = {
  presets: [
    require("@cloudoperators/juno-ui-components/build/lib/tailwind.config")
  ],
 ...
}
```

Doing this lets you use Tailwind classnames from the Juno UI Components library.

## Development

In order to work ON (NOT WITH) the Juno Design System and its components run storybook with:

```bash
pnpm --filter @cloudoperators/juno-ui-components run build-storybook
```

Run the test suite:

```bash
pnpm --filter @cloudoperators/juno-ui-components run test
```

## Continuous Deployment to GitHub Pages

Any change to this library will automatically trigger a deployment to GitHub Pages. When changes are committed to the main branch, GitHub Actions will build and test the project. If successful, the latest version of the library will be deployed to GitHub Pages.

Commit message:

chore(ci): standardize Node.js Version and Update Workflows (#989)
* chore(ci): test latest node version

* chore(ci): preview example app

* chore(ci): upgrade all workflows

* chore(ci): add test changes to all apps and packages

* chore(docs): use of nvm

* chore(ci): set node version

* chore(ci): add new line

* chore(docs): added links to license an contributions

* chore(docs): typo

* chore(ci): typo

* chore(ci): ignore license check for .nvmrc

* chore(ci): make use of env variable for node version

packages/ui-components/README.md, after:

# Juno UI Components Library

[![License](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-Apache%202.0-blue.svg)](LICENSE)

## Installation

To add Juno UI components to your app as a development dependency, install them using pnpm. Ensure you are in the root directory of your monorepo and run:

```bash
pnpm add @cloudoperators/juno-ui-components
```

…or declare manually as a dev-dependency:

```js
// package.json
"dependencies": {
  ...
  "@cloudoperators/juno-ui-components": "*"
  ...
}
```

```bash
pnpm install
```

## Working With Tailwind

Juno comes with [Tailwind](https://tailwindcss.com/) included, so when using Juno you automatically can use tailwind in your project.

To be able to make full use of the predefined colors and other custom properties from the Juno UI components library you will need to include the ui components tailwind config into your application's tailwind config like this:

```js
module.exports = {
  presets: [
    require("@cloudoperators/juno-ui-components/build/lib/tailwind.config")
  ],
 ...
}
```

Doing this lets you use Tailwind classnames from the Juno UI Components library.

## Development

In order to work ON (NOT WITH) the Juno Design System and its components run storybook with:

```bash
pnpm --filter @cloudoperators/juno-ui-components run build-storybook
```

Run the test suite:

```bash
pnpm --filter @cloudoperators/juno-ui-components run test
```

## Continuous Deployment to GitHub Pages

Any change to this library will automatically trigger a deployment to GitHub Pages. When changes are committed to the main branch, GitHub Actions will build and test the project. If successful, the latest version of the library will be deployed to GitHub Pages.

## Contributing

We welcome contributions from the community. Please follow our [contribution guidelines](https://github.com/cloudoperators/juno/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md) to contribute to this project.

## License

Licensed under the [Apache License](LICENSE).
